 # Blog Intro
•	Throughout the last ten years, I have developed a broad understanding of how to manage various properties throughout the Midwest region. I grew up on a poultry and cattle farm and always had a desire to manage the land in a productive and healthy way. After utilizing different important wildlife management techniques on my personal property, I understand what it takes to develop different habitats for the most sought after game species in the Midwest, such as deer, turkey, quail, and many others. The purpose of the this blog is to provide Midwest landowners and people who want to develop high quality habitats for wildlife with useful tips to improve their properties during this time of the year. In the upcoming blog posts, I will discuss weekly tips on how farmers, hunters, and the average land owner can improve the quality of their land in the Midwest while keeping their individual property goals in mind. Each blog post will discuss good management practices that the average person can easily understand and utilize for this time of the year. People are always curious as to what they can do throughout the year to improve their land, so I have decided to create this blog to provide the reader with management practices that they can implement this fall and winter. All of the techniques and management strategies that I discuss have come from experience and are used by many professionals in the wildlife industry. For the first blog post, I will discuss timber stand improvement strategies and explain how to select desired tree species to develop healthier timber stands for the average land owner whether that be 1 acre of timber or 500 acres of timber. The second blog post will be about creating more available forage for wild game species on your property. I will talk about several ways to increase the amount of available forage such as planting food plots, planting certain trees that provide nutrition (Oaks, persimmons, fruit trees, etc.), and other ways to provide high quality nutrition for different wild game species. I will also discuss where to place food plots on your properties and how to determine the best locations. The third blog will be about utilizing hunting methods as a way to suppress the exponential population growth of whitetail deer on your property this fall. I will discuss how high numbers of various wildlife species can have a negative impact on the health of your property, and I will explain how to maintain a healthy number of various wild game species on your property. Stay tuned to learn more about the essential wildlife management techniques that many professionals are using in the industry today!
